.\" FIG : Facility for Interactive Generation of figures
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 by Supoj Sutanthavibul
.\" Parts Copyright (c) 1994 by Brian V. Smith
.\" Parts Copyright (c) 1991 by Paul King
.\" The X Consortium, and any party obtaining a copy of these files from
.\" the X Consortium, directly or indirectly, is granted, free of charge, a
.\" full and unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free,
.\" nonexclusive right and license to deal in this software and
.\" documentation files (the "Software"), including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons who receive
.\" copies from any such party to do so, with the only requirement being
.\" that this copyright notice remain intact.  This license includes without
.\" limitation a license to do the foregoing actions under any patents of
.\" the party supplying this software to the X Consortium.
.\"
.\"
.\" Parts Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
.\" Copyright notice for pbmplus code:
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
.\" END OF Copyright notice for pbmplus code
.\"-------
.\" Man page portability notes
.\"
.\" These are some notes on conventions to maintain for greatest
.\" portability of this man page to various other versions of
.\" nroff.
.\"
.\" When you want a \ to appear in the output, use \e in the man page.
.\"
.\" Evidently not all versions of nroff allow the omission of the
.\" terminal " on a macro argument.  Thus what could be written
.\"
.\" .B "bold stuff
.\"
.\" in true nroffs must be written
.\"
.\" .B "bold stuff"
.\"
.\" instead.
.\"
.\" Use symbolic font names (e.g. R, I, B) instead of the standard
.\" font positions 1, 2, 3.  Ideally, do not use \f at all to change
.\" fonts (there are none in this man page at this writing).  Use the
.\" -man macros instead, that's what they are there for and they are
.\" more readable to boot.
.\"
.\" Note that sentences should end at the end of a line.  nroff and
.\" troff will supply the correct intersentence spacing, but only if
.\" the sentences end at the end of a line.  Explicit spaces, if given,
.\" are apparently honored and the normal intersentence spacing is
.\" suppressed.
.\"
.\" DaviD W. Sanderson
.\"-------
.\"-------
.\" xfig.1 conventions:
.\"
.\"	bold:	file names
.\"		command-line switches
.\"
.\"	italic:	variables (including environment variables)
.\"		program names
.\"		machine names
.\"
.\"-------
.if t .po .9i
.nh
.\"-------
.\" Dd	distance to space vertically before a "display"
.\" These are what n/troff use for interparagraph distance
.\"-------
.if t .nr Dd .4v
.if n .nr Dd 1v
.\"-------
.\" Sp	space down by the interparagraph distance
.\"-------
.de Sp
.sp \\n(Ddu
..
.\"-------
.\" At - argument tag
.\" Begin an argument tag for an argument description paragraph.
.\"-------
.de At
.PP
..
.\"-------
.\" Ap - argument description paragraph
.\" It's an indented paragraph starting immediately after the
.\" preceding text (with no intervening blank line).
.\" The reason for having this is so that we can construct the
.\" ``tag'' for the paragraph (which describes a command argument)
.\" using more than one line of -man macros.  The regular .TP
.\" macro only allows the tag to occupy one line in the source file,
.\" which can often force explicit font changes using troff mechanisms
.\" which make the source harder to read.
.\"-------
.de Ap
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
..
.\"-------
.TH XFIG 1 "Xfig 3.2.3 (Jan 14, 2000)"
.SH NAME
xfig - Facility for Interactive Generation of figures under X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfig
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xfig
is a menu-driven tool that allows the user to draw and manipulate
objects interactively under the X Window System.
.B It runs under X version 11
.B release 4 or higher
and requires a two- or three-button mouse.
.I file
specifies the name of a file to be edited.
The objects in the file will be read at the start of
.IR xfig .
.PP
The bulk of the documentation fori
.IR xfig
is in an HTML-based reference guide.
See the Help menu in
.IR xfig
or point your browser at 
.IR Doc/html/index.html
(provided with the
.IR xfig
distribution, usually in the 
.IR Doc/www
directory).
There are both English and Japanese versions.
.PP
When using a two-button mouse use the
.I <Meta>
key and the right button at the same time to effect
the action of the middle button.
.PP
.I Xfig
is available from
ftp://www-epb.lbl.gov/xfig
and usually from ftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/applications/drawing_tools/xfig .
.PP
The
.I TransFig
package is used when printing or exporting the output from
.IR xfig .
The
.IR fig2dev
program from the 
.IR TransFig
package is automatically called by
.IR xfig
as a back-end processor to produce various types of output:
.PP
LaTeX, Metafont, PostScript or Encapsulated PostScript,
tk (tcl/tk tool command language/tool kit package),
GIF, JPEG, PCX, PNG, PPM, TIFF,
XBM, XPM, AutoCAD Slide, IBM-GL (HP/GL), Pic
PiCTeX, box, epic, eepic, and eepicemu.
.PP
See man fig2dev for all options.
.PP
The
.I TransFig
package is available from
ftp://www-epb.lbl.gov/xfig and
ftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/applications/drawing_tools/transfig .
.SH OPTIONS
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-help
.Ap
Print all command-line options for xfig and quit.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-a [ llow_neg_coords ]
.Ap
Allow panning into the negative region of the canvas.
This is the default
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-bal [ loon_delay ]
.I msec
.Ap
Cause popup information balloons to be delayed by
.I msec
milliseconds.  The default is 500 milliseconds.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-bol [ d ]
.I font
.Ap
Cause the font used for displaying the file name and
confirmation messages to be
.I font
(default = 8x13bold).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-butt [ on ]
.I font
.Ap
Cause the font used for most buttons to be
.I font
(default = 6x13).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-but_ [ per_row ]
.I number
.Ap
Specify the number of buttons wide the mode panel should be.
This is useful in conjunction with the
.B \-pheight
parameter to reduce the canvas height for small screens.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-cbg " color"
.Ap
Use
.I color
as the background color for the canvas.
If you want to set the background of everything in xfig
(e.g. menus, etc.) use the general -bg option.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-center
.Ap
Set the print option to print the figure centered on the page.
This is the default.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-centim [ ers ]
.Ap
Make centimeters the unit of choice.  See also -metric.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-cfg " color"
.Ap
Use
.I color
as the default color for objects.
If you want to set the foreground of everything in xfig
(e.g. menus, etc.) use the general -fg option.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-deb [ ug ]
.Ap
Turn on debugging mode.
Prints various debugging messages like font names etc.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-dep [ th ]
.Ap
Choose depth of visual desired.  Your server must support the desired
visual and depth chosen.
Use
.I xdpyinfo
to see what visuals and depths are supported.
See also the
.BR \-visual
option.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-dont_a [ llow_neg_coords ]
.Ap
Don't allow panning into the negative region of the canvas.
The default is to allow panning in the negative region.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-dontshowb [ alloons ]
.Ap
Prevents xfig from popping up the information balloons.
See also -showballoons.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-dontshowl [ engths ]
.Ap
Don't show lengths of lines as they are being drawn.
This is the default.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-dont_s [ how_zero_lines ]
.Ap
Don't show axis zero lines on the canvas.
The default is to show them.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-dontsw [ itchcmap ]
.Ap
Prevents xfig from switching to a private colormap if there aren't
enough colors available in the default colormap.  See also
.BR \-max_image_colors.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-exportL [ anguage ]
.I language
.Ap
Specifies the default language to be used for when exporting a fig file.
Choices are:
.Sp
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Table Begin
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.ne 17
.nf
.nr t0 \w'eepicemu\0\0\0\0'u
.ta \n(t0u
.\" set n to length of longest line
.di xx
eepicemu	LaTeX picture + eepicemu macros
.nr n \n(.nu
.di
.rm xx
.\" HEADER
Name	Language
.if n \l'\nnu\&-'
.if t \l'\nnu'
.\" DATA
box	LaTeX box (figure boundary)
latex	LaTeX picture
epic	LaTeX picture + epic macros
eepic	LaTeX picture + eepic macros
eepicemu	LaTeX picture + eepicemu macros
pictex	PiCTeX macros
ibmgl	IBMGL (or HPGL)
eps	Encapuslated PostScript
ps	PostScript
pdf	PDF (Portable Document Format)
pstex	Combined PS/LaTeX (both PS and LaTeX parts)
textyl	Textyl special commands
tpic	TPIC
pic	PIC
mf	MF (MetaFont)
cgm	CGM (Computer MetaGraphics)
tk	Tk (of the tcl/tk fame)
sld	(AutoCad slide)
pcx	PCX
png	PNG
gif	GIF
jpeg	JPEG (JFIF)
tiff	TIFF
ppm	PPM (portable pixmap package)
xbm	X11 Bitmap
xpm	X11 Pixmap (XPM3 package)

.if n \l'\nnu\&-'
.if t \l'\nnu'
.DT
.fi
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Table End
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"-------

.At
.BR \-export_m [ argin ]
.I width
.Ap
Set the size of the border margin around the figure for exporting
to bitmap, PostScript, Encapsulated PostScript, or HTML MAP formats.
This is in units of pixels (1/80th inch).
The default is 0.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-fli [ pvisualhints ]
.Ap
Flip left/right mouse indicator messages for mice whose buttons
have been switched.
The default is to NOT flip the messages.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-flu [ shleft ]
.Ap
Set the print option to print the figure flush left.
The default is to center the figure on the page.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-geom [ etry ]
.RI [ WxH ] [+X+Y]
.Ap
You may use the -geometry option or resource to
.I size and/or position the xfig window,
or you may use -pwidth and/or -pheight
to specify the canvas size in inches or centimeters.
If you use the -geom option to make the xfig window smaller
than the default, you may have to use the -but_per_row option to 
tell xfig to put 3 or 4 buttons per row on the left mode panel.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-hidd [ entext ]
.Ap
Start
.I xfig
with the
.I "hidden text"
mode for text objects.
The
.I Hidden
attribute is used for figures that will be used with
.I LaTeX
and is applicable only to the display of the document in
.IR xfig .
It means that the text itself is not shown onscreen, but only the string
``<text>''.  This is to keep long sequences of
.I LaTeX
formatting commands from making the screen messy and hard to read.
The default for the
.I Hidden
flag is
.IR off .
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-hide [ depthmanager ]
.Ap
Hide the depth manager panel.
The default is to show the panel.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-iconG [ eometry ]
.RI + X + Y
.Ap
Specifies the position for the icon.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-im [ age_editor ]
.I editor
.Ap
Specify bitmap editor to use when ``Edit Image'' button is pressed
in Picture Object panel.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-inc [ hes ] 
.BR (or -imperial)
.Ap
Make inches the unit of choice.
This is the default.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-internalBW " width"
.Ap
Use lines of width
.I width
between all buttons and panels (default = 1).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-jpeg [ _quality ]
.I quality
.Ap
Set the quality factor for exporting to the jpeg format.
The default is 75.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-k [ eyFile ]
.I compose-key-file
.Ap
Use
.I compose-key-file
instead of
.I CompKeyDB
for compose (meta) key database.
If there are no
.RB `` / ''s
in the name, the file must reside in the
.I xfig
library directory,
.IR $XFIGLIBDIR ,
usually
.BR /usr/local/lib/X11/xfig .
If there are any
.RB `` / ''s
in the name it is taken as is (not relative to
.IR $XFIGLIBDIR ).
If there is a leading
.RB `` ~/ ''
in the string then the
.RB `` ~ ''
is expanded to the user's home directory.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-lan [ dscape ]
.Ap
Make
.I xfig
come up in landscape mode (10.5" x 8").
This is the default; however as the orientation is stored with Fig files,
when you load a Fig file the orientation will change as required.
This is only true for files of version 3.0 or higher.
.br
See also -portrait.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-lat [ exfonts ]
.Ap
Start
.I xfig
with
.I LaTeX
font selection.
Normally, the
.I PostScript
fonts are available as the default.
This flag selects the
.I LaTeX
fonts to start.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-le [ ft ]
.Ap
Change the position of the side panel window to the left of the canvas window.
This is the default.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-li [ brary_dir ]
.I directory
.Ap
Specify directory where Fig object libraries are located.  There may be sub-directories
there and sub-sub-directories, etc.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-mag [ nification ]
.I mag
.Ap
Set export and print magnification in %.
.At
.BR \-max [ _image_colors ]
.I numcols
.Ap
Limit the number of colors used for imported images to
.I numcols (default 64).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-me [ tric ]
.Ap
Make centimeters the unit of choice.  Also -centimeters.
.IP \&
After
.I xfig
is started you may change the units from metric to
imperial or vice versa from a popup menu available by pressing mouse
button 3 in the
.I units
box where the two rulers meet.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-mo [ nochrome ]
.Ap
Use black and white only.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-mu [ ltiple ]
.Ap
Sets multiple page mode for print or export. See also 
.BR \-single.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-nor [ mal ]
.I font
.Ap
Cause the font used for the message window to be
.IR font .
This font is also used on the canvas when the selected font is not
available in an X11 font (default = 6x13).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-nos [ calablefonts ]
.Ap
Disables use of the X11R5 or OpenWindows scalable fonts.
You might want to use this for debugging.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-not [ rack ]
.Ap
Turn off cursor (mouse) tracking arrows.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-pag [ eborder ]
.I color
.Ap
Draw the page border on the canvas in this color (default light blue).
The page border is turned on by the -showpageborder (resource Fig.showpageborder) option,
and shows the edges of the current 
.I export
paper size.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-pap [ er_size ]
.I size
.Ap
Set the initial paper size for Export and Print.  Choices are
.in +.5i
.nf
Letter (8.5" x 11"),
Legal (8.5" x 14"),
Ledger ( 17" x 11"),
Tabloid ( 11" x 17"),
A (8.5" x 11"),
B ( 11" x 17"),
C ( 17" x 22"),
D ( 22" x 34"),
E ( 34" x 44"),
A4 (21 cm x 29.7cm),
A3 (29.7cm x 42 cm),
A2 (42 cm x 59.4cm),
A1 (59.4cm x 84.1 cm),
A0 (84.1 cm x 118.9cm),
B5 (18.2cm x 25.7cm)
.fi
.in
.Sp
Note that this doesn't affect the size of the drawing canvas. 
Use the -pheight and -pwidth options for that.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-ph [ eight ]
.I height
.Ap
Make the
.I xfig
canvas
.I height
high (where
.I height
is either cm or in, depending on the -metric setting).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-po [ rtrait ]
.Ap
Make
.I xfig
come up in portrait mode (8.5" x 9").  See note about landscape mode.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-pw [ idth ]
.I width
.Ap
Make the
.I xfig
canvas
.I width
wide (where
.I width
is either cm or in, depending on the -metric setting).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-righ [ t ]
.Ap
Change the position of the side panel window to the right of the canvas window
(default: left).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-rigi [ d ]
.Ap
Start
.I xfig
with the
.I "rigid text"
mode for text objects.
The
.I Rigid
attribute forces text to remain the same size even if
inside a compound object that is scaled up or down.
The default is
.IR off .
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-ru [ lerthick ]
.Ap
Set the thickness of the top and side rulers in pixels.
The default (and minimum) is 24.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-sc [ alablefonts ]
.Ap
Allows use of the X11R5 or OpenWindows scalable fonts (this is the default).
If the scalable fonts aren't available
.I xfig
will automatically switch to non-scaling fonts.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-showa [ llbuttons ]
.Ap
Show all the
.I xfig
indicator buttons instead of only those relevant
to the current drawing mode.
Normally, the buttons
.IR "line width" ,
.IR area-fill ,
.IR "grid mode" ,
.IR "text size" ,
etc. are only visible when
they are relevant to the current drawing mode.
The
.B \-showallbuttons
option makes all
of the indicator buttons visible at all times.
This takes up more screen real estate,
but allows the user to see all settable parameters.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-showb [ alloons ]
.Ap
Forces 
.I xfig
to pop up the information balloons when the mouse
passws over a button. This is the default. See also -dontshowballoons.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-showd [ epthmanager ]
.Ap
Show the depth manager panel.  This panel lets one show or hide
objects at various depths.
This is the default.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-showl [ engths ]
.Ap
Makes 
.I xfig 
show the lengths of lines being drawn, in red text near the
line itself.  Also, when points are moved or added.  In addition, imagine
a triangle formed with the line segment as the hypotenuse,
and a vertical and horizontal line forming the other two sides.  These
lines and their lengths are also drawn in red as the point is moved or added.
This mode is ignored when drawing in freehand mode.
.br
This flag may be toggled by pressing <Meta>i (default).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-showp [ ageborder ]
.Ap
Makes 
.I xfig 
show the border of the current paper size in the color specified
by the -pageborder option (default light blue).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-show_ [ zero_lines ]
.Ap
Show axis zero lines on the canvas.
This is the default
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-si [ ngle ]
.Ap
Sets single page mode for print or export. 
This is the default.  See also 
.BR \-multiple.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-spec [ ialtext ]
.Ap
Start
.I xfig
with the
.I "special text"
mode for text objects.
Special text means that special characters in the string are not specially
processed but are passed directly to
.IR LaTeX .
This is most useful for writing LaTeX equations.
If this flag is not set, then the backslash character '\\' is changed
to the \\backslash command, a brace '{' is turned into a brace command \\{, etc.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-spel [ lcheckcommand ]
.I command
.Ap
Use
.I command
for the external spell checking program when using the spell check/search/replace
popup.  
The string
.I command
should include the string ``%s'' which is replaced by a temporary filename.
Default is ``spell %s''.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-spinner_d [ elay ]
.I msec
.Ap
The delay (in milliseconds) before the spinner will automatically count up 
or down when the button is pressed.
Spinners are the (numeric) text widgets with an up- and down-arrow, which when 
clicked, cause the value to be incremented/decremented.
The default is 500 milliseconds.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-spinner_r [ rate ]
.I msec
.Ap
The rate (in milliseconds) at which the spinner will count
when the up- or down-arrow is pressed.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startfi [ llstyle ]
.I stylenumber
.Ap
Set the starting fill style for area fill (-1 to 21).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startfo [ ntsize ]
.I pointsize
.Ap
Set the default font size for text objects (default = 12pt).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startg [ ridmode ]
.I modenumber
.Ap
Set the starting grid mode (0 to 3).  Mode 0 is no grid.
In imperial (inches) mode, grid mode 1 is 1/4 inch,
mode 2 is 1/2 inch and mode 3 is 1 inch.
In metric mode, grid mode 1 is 5mm, mode 2 is 1cm and mode 3 is 2cm.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startla [ texFont ]
.I font
.Ap
Set the starting font name for
.I LaTeX
fonts.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startli [ newidth ]
.I width
.Ap
Set the starting line width.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startpo [ snmode ]
.I modenumber
.Ap
Set the starting point positioning mode (0 to 4)
In imperial (inches) mode, positioning mode 0 is ``any'',
mode 1 is 1/16 inch,
mode 2 is 1/4 inch, mode 3 is 1/2 inch and mode 4 is 1 inch.
In metric mode, mode 0 is ``any'',
mode 1 is 1mm, mode 2 is 5mm, mode 3 is 10mm and mode 4 is 20mm.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startp [ sFont ]
.I font
.Ap
Set the starting font name for
.I PostScript
fonts.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-startt [ extstep ]
.I stepsize
.Ap
Set the starting text step.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-ta [ blet ]
.Ap
Specifies that xfig should use the input tablet instead of the mouse
for drawing.  You must have the XInputExtension in your X server and
an input tablet for this to work.  Also, you must modify the Imakefile
to include the USETAB and TABLIB variables.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-track
.Ap
Turn on cursor (mouse) tracking arrows (default).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-tran [ sparent_color ]
.I color_number
.Ap
Make the transparent color for GIF export
.I color_number.
This number is the color number according to the 
.B xfig
color panel, starting at 0 (black) and ending at 31 (gold),
or may be a user-defined color number, which is 32 or higher.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-up [ date ]
.I file [ file ... ]
.Ap
Run xfig in an "update" mode, where it will read each Fig file specified
on the command line and write it out to the original file,
in the current file format for the version of xfig being run.
The original Fig file will be preserved with
the suffix \fI.bak\fR attached to the name.
.br
In this mode, xfig doesn't connect the X server, so no window is opened,
and it exits when finished.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-users [ cale ]
.I scale
.Ap
Set the multiplier for displayed line lengths etc.
This factor is multiplied by the actual length,
radius or diameter of the object currently
being drawn on the canvas.
It is useful for making scale drawings, where
e.g. 1 inch = 1 foot (userscale = 12.0) or 1cm = 1m (userscale = 100.0).
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-useru [ nit ]
.I units
.Ap
The
.I units
string is printed with the length information when drawing objects.
For example if the
.I userscale
= 1.0 and the
.I userunit
=
.I ft
then a line which is 3 inches long on the canvas would be displayed as
``length = 3 ft'' when it is being drawn.
.IP
After
.I xfig
is started you may change the
.I userscale
and the
.I userunit
from a popup menu available by pressing mouse button 3 in the
.I units
box where the two rulers meet.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-visual
.I visualname
.Ap
Use
.I visualname
as the visual for xfig.  The names are TrueColor (case is not important),
StaticColor, DirectColor, StaticGray, GrayScale and PseudoColor.
.I xfig
uses the default visual unless this is specified.  Your server must
support the desired visual.
Use
.I xdpyinfo
to see what visuals and depths are supported.
See also the
.BR \-depth
option.
.\"-------
.At
.BR \-zoom
.I zoomscale
.Ap
Set the starting zoom scale.


.bp
.SH "X RESOURCES and DEFAULTS"
The overall widget name(Class) is xfig(Fig).
These resources correspond to the command line arguments:
.PP
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Table Begin
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.nr t0 \w'internalborderwidth\0'u
.nr t1 \n(t0+\w'InternalBorderWidth\0'u
.nr t2 \n(t1+\w'boolean\0'u
.nr t3 \n(t2+\w'Times-Roman\0'u
.ta \n(t0u \n(t1u \n(t2u \n(t3u
.if n .RS -1i
.if t .RS
.nf
.\"-------
.\" set n to length of table line
.di xx
Name	Class	Type	Default	Command-line
.nr n \n(.nu
.di
.rm xx
.\"-------
.\" HEADER
.\"-------
Name\&\&\&\&\&\&	Class\&\&\&\&\&\&	Type	Default\&\&\&\&\&	Command-line
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	equivalent
.\"-------
.\" BODY
.\"-------
.if n \l'\nnu\&-'
.if t \l'\nnu'
allow_neg_coords\&	NegativeCoordinates	boolean	on\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-allow_neg_coords,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dont_allow_neg_coords,
balloon_delay\&\&	balloonDelay\&\&	integer	500 (ms)\&\&\&\&	\-balloon_delay
boldFont\&\&\&\&	Font\&\&\&\&\&\&	string	8x13bold\&\&\&\&	\-bold
but_per_row\&\&\&	But_per_row\&\&\&	int	2\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-but_per_row
buttonFont\&\&\&\&	Font\&\&\&\&\&\&	string	6x13\&\&\&\&	\-button
canvasBackground	Background\&\&\&	string	white\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-cbg
canvasForeground	Foreground\&\&\&	string	black\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-cfg
debug\&\&\&\&\&\&	Debug\&\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	off\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-debug
depth\&\&\&\&\&\&	Depth\&\&\&\&\&\&	integer	*\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-depth
dont_switch_cmap	Dont_switch_cmap	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dontswitchcmap
exportLanguage\&	ExportLanguage\&	string	eps\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-exportLanguage
export_margin\&\&	Margin\&\&\&\&\&	integer	0\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-export_margin
flipvisualhints\&	Hints\&\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-flipvisualhints
flushleft\&\&\&\&	FlushLeft\&\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-flushleft
image_editor\&\&	ImageEditor\&\&\&	string	xv\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-image_editor
inches\&\&\&\&\&	Inches\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-inches,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-centimeters,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-imperial,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-metric
internalborderwidth	InternalBorderWidth	integer	1\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-internalBW
justify\&\&\&\&\&	Justify\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-left (false),
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-right (true)
jpeg_quality\&\&	Quality\&\&\&\&\&	integer	75\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-jpeg_quality
keyFile\&\&\&\&\&	KeyFile\&\&\&\&\&	string	CompKeyDB\&\&\&\&	\-keyFile
landscape\&\&\&\&	Orientation\&\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-Landscape,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-Portrait
latexfonts\&\&\&	Latexfonts\&\&\&	boolean	off\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-latexfonts
library_dir\&\&\&	Directory\&\&\&\&	string	~/xfiglib\&\&\&\&	\-library_dir
magnification\&\&	Magnification\&\&	float	100\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-magnification
max_image_colors\&	Max_image_colors	integer	64\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-max_image_colors
monochrome\&\&\&\&	Monochrome\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-monochrome
multiple\&\&\&\&	Multiple\&\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-multiple
normalFont\&\&\&	Font\&\&\&\&\&\&	string	6x13\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-normal
pageborder\&\&\&	Color\&\&\&\&\&\&	string	color\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-pageborder
page_size\&\&\&\&	Pagesize\&\&\&\&	string	Letter/A4\&\&\&\&	\-page_size
pheight\&\&\&\&\&	Height\&\&\&\&\&	float	8(9.5)\&\&\&\&\&	\-pheight
pwidth\&\&\&\&\&	Width\&\&\&\&\&\&	float	10(8)\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-pwidth
rulerthick\&\&\&	RulerThick\&\&\&	integer	24\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-rulerthick
scalablefonts\&\&	ScalableFonts\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-scalablefonts
showallbuttons\&	ShowAllButtons\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-showallbuttons
showballoons\&\&	ShowBalloons\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-showballoons,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dontshowballoons
showdepthmanager	Hints\&\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-showdepthmanager,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dontshowdepthmanager
showpageborder\&\&	Debug\&\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-showpageborder,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dontshowpageborder
showlengths\&\&\&	ShowLengths\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-showlengths,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dontshowlengths
show_zero_lines\&	Axis\&\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-show_zero_lines,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-dont_show_zero_lines
single\&\&\&\&\&	Single\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	true\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-single
specialtext\&\&\&	SpecialText\&\&\&	boolean	false\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-specialtext
spellcheckcommand	spellCheckCommand	string	spell %s\&\&\&\&\&	\-spellcheckcommand
spinner_delay\&\&	spinnerDelay\&\&	integer	500 (ms)\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-spinner_delay
spinner_rate\&\&	spinnerRate\&\&\&	integer	100 (ms)\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-spinner_rate
startfillstyle\&\&	StartFillStyle\&	integer	0\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-startfillstyle
startfontsize\&\&	StartFontSize\&\&	float	12\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-startfontsize
startgridmode\&\&	StartGridMode\&\&	integer	0\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-startgridmode
startlatexFont\&	StartlatexFont\&	string	Default\&\&\&\&\&	\-startlatexFont
startlinewidth\&	StartLineWidth\&	integer	1\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-startlinewidth
startposnmode\&\&	StartPosnMode\&\&	integer	1\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-startposnmode
startpsFont\&\&\&	StartpsFont\&\&\&	string	Times\-Roman\&\&\&	\-startpsFont
starttextstep\&\&	StartTextStep\&\&	float	1.2\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-starttextstep
trackCursor\&\&\&\&	Track\&\&\&\&\&\&	boolean	on\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-track,
\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\&\&\&	\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-notrack
transparent_color	Transparent\&\&\&	integer	-2 (none)\&\&\&\&	\-transparent_color
userscale\&\&\&\&	UserScale\&\&\&\&	float	1.0\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-userscale
userunit\&\&\&\&	UserUnit\&\&\&\&	string	in(cm)\&\&\&\&\&	\-userunit
visual\&\&\&\&\&	Visual\&\&\&\&\&	string	*\&\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-visual
zoom\&\&\&\&\&\&	Zoom\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	float	1.0\&\&\&\&\&\&\&	\-zoom

* Default visual and depth depend on the X server. Use \fIxdpyinfo\fR to see what visuals
and depths are supported.
.if n \l'\nnu\&-'
.if t \l'\nnu'
.if n .RE
.if t .RE
.fi
.DT
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Table End
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------

.bp
.SH BUGS and RESTRICTIONS
Please send bug reports, fixes, new features etc. to:
.br
xfig-bugs@epb1.lbl.gov
(Brian V. Smith)
.PP
When reporting a bug, please first check if the problem is mentioned in
the FAQ section of the HTML files (xfig Help menu).  
.PP
If it is not mentioned there, be sure to report the operating system you
are using (e.g. SunOS 4.1.3), type of X server and version (OpenWindows 3, X11R6.4,
XFree86 3.2.2, etc) and color depth (e.g. 8bpp, 16bpp), and most
importantly the version of xfig or fig2dev that is having the problem.
.PP
It is also VERY useful to me if you can provide a stack trace from a debugger
such as gdb, dbx, ups, etc, if the bug causes xfig to crash.
.PP
Because of the difference of some fonts in some X servers and the PostScript
fonts on printers, text alignment can be problematic.
.PP
Not all operations employ smart redrawing of objects which are altered
as a by product of the operation.
You may need to use
.I Redraw
in these cases.
.PP
Some servers do not allow bitmaps/pixmaps taller than the screen height
or wider than the screen width.
That is why there is a limit on the width
of the top ruler and height of the side ruler.
If you need wider/taller rulers AND your server allows bigger pixmaps,
you may define
.B MAX_TOPRULER_WD
and/or
.B MAX_SIDERULER_HT
in your Imakefile in the
.I DEFINES
line.
For example,
to have a maximum top ruler width of 1160 pixels, add
.B \-DMAX_TOPRULER_WD=1160
to your
.I DEFINES
line in the Imakefile.
.PP
If the image is panned or the
.I xfig
window iconified and de-iconified
during the middle of an operation (e.g. while drawing a line), the picture
will be distorted.
This can be corrected using
.I Redraw
after the operation is complete.
.PP
When zoomed very large, the length of dashes in dashed lines will top out
at 255 pixels long.  This is due to a restriction in X
that the dash list is defined by char (255 pixels maximum for a dash).
The figure will print correctly, however.
.PP
When you do a copy/rotate with multiple copies,
only the creation of the last object can be undone with the Undo button.
.PP
Modifications to text using the popup search/update/replace/spell check panel 
cannot be undone.
.PP
See the
.B README
file for troubleshooting.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
fig2dev(1)
.RI ( TransFig
package)
.PP
gs(1)
.RI ( Ghostscript
PostScript previewer)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
(From the original author, Supoj Sutanthavibul):
Many thanks goes to Professor Donald E. Fussell who inspired the
creation of this tool.
.PP
(From current maintainer Brian Smith):
Thanks to all the users who have contributed to xfig, especially
Paul King who, besides adding many features,
revamped the look and feel which became version 2.1.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Original Copyright (c) 1985 by Supoj Sutanthavibul
Parts Copyright (c) 1994-1999 by Brian V. Smith
Parts Copyright (c) 1991 by Paul King
Other Copyrights may be found in various files
.Sp
.fi
.PP
Any party obtaining a copy of these files is granted, free of charge, a
full and unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free,
nonexclusive right and license to deal in this software and
documentation files (the "Software"), including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons who receive
copies from any such party to do so, with the only requirement being
that this copyright notice remain intact.
.PP
Note that although I work at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL)
I don't speak for LBNL nor do I represent LBNL with respect to my work on
TransFig and xfig, nor does LBL make any representations about the suitability
of this software for any purpose.
.PP
Here is the legal part:
.PP
THE LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.PP
.I PostScript
is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.Sp
.nf
Parts Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
Copyright notice for pbmplus code:
.Sp
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose and without
fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  This software is provided ``as is'' without
express or implied warranty.
.fi
.br
.SH FILES
.ft B
.ft P
.TP 8
.B CompKeyDB
Data base of compose (meta) key sequences for 8-bit characters.
Must be installed in
.B $(XFIGLIBDIR)
with ``make install'',
or may be specified with command line option
.B \-keyFile
or X toolkit resource keyFile.
See the
.IR Imakefile .
.TP
/usr/lib/X11/xfig
This directory contains the html documentation, the above mentioned
CompKeyDB file, and a directory of libraries containing Fig objects
such as electrical symbols, logic symbols, etc.
.TP
.B Fig.ad and Fig-color.ad
Application defaults files which are automatically installed
in the system app-defaults directory with the
.I make install
command.
.TP
.B Doc/FORMAT3.2
Description of Fig file format.
.TP
.B README
Installation instructions and troubleshooting.
.TP
.B CHANGES
Description of bug fixes/new features.

.SH AUTHORS
Many people have contributed to
.IR xfig .
Here is a list of the people who
have contributed the most (in chronological order):
.sp
.B "Version 1:"
.sp 2
.in +4
Original author:
.br
Supoj Sutanthavibul, University of Texas at Austin
.sp
The
.I LaTeX
line drawing modes were contributed by:
.br
Frank Schmuck, Cornell University
.sp
Original X11 port by:
.br
Ken Yap, Rochester
.sp
Variable window sizes, cleanup of X11 port, right hand side panel:
.br
Dana Chee, Bellcore
.sp
Cleanup of color port to X11 by:
.br
John T. Kohl, MIT
.sp
.in -4
.B "Version 2.0:"
.in +4
.sp 2
Area fill, multiple line thicknesses, multiple fonts and font sizes,
bottom panel, line style/thickness,
(and anything else that wasn't written by the others)
by:
.br
Brian Smith
.br
(standard disclaimer applies)
.br
(bvsmith@lbl.gov)
.sp
Popup change-object menu by:
.br
Jon Tombs
.br
Frank Schmuck
.sp
Zooming and panning functions, shift key select mechanism by:
.br
Dieter Pellkofer
.br
Henning Spruth
.sp
Depth feature by:
.br
Mike Lutz
.sp
Cut/Paste by:
.br
Tom Tkacik
.sp
.in -4
.B "Version 2.1:"
.in +4
.sp 2
Indicator panel, file menu popup, print menu popup,
panning with rulers, mouse function window, regular polygon,
rubberbanding of circles/ellipses, filled splines on canvas,
dashed/dotted splines on canvas, update button,
arbitrary angle rotation of objects, alignment in compound,
object scaling, constrained copy/move, corner markers for compound,
context sensitive corner markers, smarter redraw, undo for compound
and point move for boxes, cancel object creation, point positioning
to three resolutions,
.I TransFig
scalable text, hidden text,
special text, save of figure on crash by:
.sp
Paul King (king@cs.uq.oz.au)
.br
with help from:
.br
Brian Smith
and Micah Beck (beck@cs.utk.edu)
.sp
Encapsulated
.I PostScript
importing by:
.br
Brian Boyter
.sp
Pan/zoom with ctrl key/mouse by:
.br
Henning Spruth
.sp
International characters by:
.br
Herve Soulard
.sp
Directory Browser based on XDir by:
.br
Win Treese, Digital Equipment Corporation
.sp
Rotated ellipses by:
.br
James Tough, Dept. of Computer Science, Heriot-Watt University, Scotland
.sp
Rotated text from the
.I xvertext
package by:
.br
Alan Richardson, Space Science Centre, School of MAPS,
University of Sussex
.sp
Popup scale menu and dynamic switching between inches and cm by:
.br
Paul King (king@cs.uq.oz.au)
.sp
Extensive man page formatting revisions by:
.br
David W. Sanderson
.sp
Display Postscript code for IBM RS/6000 by:
.br
Dave Hale (dhale@green.mines.colorado.edu)
.in -4
.sp
.B "Version 3.0:"
.in +4
.sp 2
.br
New arrowhead types, separate pen/fill colors, new file protocol,
more colors with extended color popup panel, new arc style,
new fill patterns (bricks, etc), new line join and cap styles,
export offset and file load offset, XPM import, XBM import and export
(and anything else that wasn't written by the others) by:
.br
Brian Smith
.br
(Note: the color popup panel was based on
.I xcoloredit
by Richard Hesketh)
.sp
.sp
GIF header reading code by:
.br
David Koblas from the giftoppm part of the pbmplus package
.sp
XPM export code (using XPM3 libraries) by:
.br
Karel van Houten (K.H.C.vanHouten@research.ptt.nl)
.sp
Higher figure resolution (1200dpi) by:
.br
Ross Martin (martin@trcsun3.eas.asu.edu)
.sp
Color quantization using neural network by:
.br
Anthony Dekker (dekker@ACM.org)
.br
[NEUQUANT Neural-Net quantization algorithm by Anthony Dekker, 1994.
See ``Kohonen neural networks for optimal colour quantization''
in ``Network: Computation in Neural Systems'' Vol. 5 (1994) pp 351-367.
for a discussion of the algorithm.]
.sp
Floyd-Steinberg algorithm for dithering color images on monochrome
displays lifted from the Pbmplus package by Jef Poskanser.
.sp
rotate/flip objects around/about selected anchor point and multiple
copies of objects by:
.br
Uwe Bonnes (bon@lte.e-technik.uni-erlangen.de)
.sp
Input tablet extension by:
.br
Greg LaCoste (greg@seismo.do.usbr.gov)
.in -4
.sp
.B "Version 3.1:"
.sp 2
.in +4
.br
The only difference between protocol version 3.0 and version 3.1 is
that the position of the ``magnet'' has been shifted by 14 fig units.
In the 2.1 and older versions of xfig the grid was in multiples of 5 fig
units, but they were on intervals 4, 9, 14, 19, etc.
When version 3.0 was created, coordinates were simply multiplied by the
ratio of the resolutions (1200/80 = 15) so values like 4 became 60 instead
of 74 ((4+1)*15 - 1).
.sp
The JPEG import/export code uses the Independent JPEG Group software
(see jpeg/README for details)
.sp
Image browser, editor and screen capture features by:
.br
Jim Daley (jdaley@cix.compulink.co.uk)
.in -4
.sp
.B "Version 3.2:"
.sp 2
.in +4
.br
The changes to the version 3.2 file protocol are the addition of the
paper size, print/export magnification, single/multiple page indicator
and a transparent color name used for GIF export to the header
of the file.
.br
The other difference in the version 3.2 protocol is the
mathematical model used for splines. The new version
uses X-splines which allows the user to mix interpolation and approximation
points in a same curve. More precisely, it means that an X-spline curve
is neither an interpolated spline nor an approximated one, it is BOTH
(the behaviour of each point is controlled by one single parameter
called ``shape factor''). For additional information about X-splines, see:
.sp
  "X-Splines: A Spline Model Designed for the End User"
  by C. Blanc and C. Schlick, Proceedings of SIGGRAPH'95
  http://dept-info.labri.u-bordeaux.fr/~schlick/DOC/sig1.html
.sp
Caveat: Because previous spline models (quadratic B-splines and Bezier
with hidden points) are no longer supported, curves that are present
in version 3.1 and older files are automatically converted to X-splines.
This translation is only an approximation process. It means that the
converted curves are not exactly the same as the original ones. Though
they are usually very close, some hand-fitting may be needed in
some pathological cases.
.sp
Inclusion of X\-splines by:
.br
Carole Blanc (blanc@labri.u\-bordeaux.fr)
.br
Christophe Schlick (schlick@labri.u\-bordeaux.fr)
.br
Note: the initial implementation was done by C. Feuille, S. Grosbois, L.
Maziere and L. Minihot as a student practice (Universite Bordeaux, France).
.sp
Open/close compound feature written by
.br
Bill Taylor (bill@mainstream.com)
.sp
Library feature written by 
.br
Stephane Mancini (mancini@elecsrv.enst.fr)
(object preview by Brian V. Smith)
.sp
The library objects in the Electrical and Logic libraries were done by
.br
Peter Hiscocks (phiscock@ee.ryerson.ca)
.sp
The library objects in the Computer, Networks, and Hospital-Equipment
libraries were extracted from the clipart example files by
.br
Bill Chimiak (chim@bgsm.edu)
.sp
.in -4
.sp
.B "Version 3.2.3:"
.sp 2
.in +4
Please see the CHANGES file for credits for version 3.2.3 features.
.in -4
.SH NOTES
Many bug fixes/cleanups etc. by a host of faithful users
.sp
See the
.B CHANGES
file for all the credits
.sp
The
.I TransFig
package was written by Micah Beck and is maintained by Brian Smith
